
---reviewer no.1 ---
Please comment on the nature of contribution this article makes to the field. <span class=pagecontents>Nature of contribution</span> The study contributes a new measure for complexity in linguistics, based on corpus data.
Please comment on specific strengths and weaknesses of the article. <span class=pagecontents>Specific strengths/ weaknesses</span> I find this study quite interesting, when starting, as it summarizes different ideas about linguistic complexity so well. I also think that the methods for measuring complexity from corpora are good explained. The more suprising was it for me to read the results part and part of the methods, when it all broke down to cross-correlations whose purpose I had difficulties to understand. I see, yes, you want to explore your advanced measure, but can it really be that this is the only way to do so? If you run through the pain of proposing the measure, is it not possible to make a much clearer point for it here? Maybe one could check the results for individual languages, or one could try to argue much more clearly why the measure that seems to be so similar to the one by Çöltekin and Rama should be taken into consideration. I may also imagine some kind of a robustness test on findings published with other data before (you mention Grambank and their work on societies of stranges, why don't you test your approach on this hypothesis?).

Another point that I found surprising is that the study deals so thoroughly with all the evil pitfalls from using UD data and other datasets, but puts most of this in the appendix. Linguistics Vanguard does not really have a page limit, as far as I know, so as a reader interested in methodology, I'd like to read quite a few of the things you put into the appendix in the methods part, or in an evaluation or discussion part, where you point to the pitfalls of applying methods to corpus data in a naive manner.

After I asked for the missing code when reviewing this study the first time, I am pleased that it is now there, and that it also seems to be rather well described.
Please comment on the appropriateness of the article specifically for Linguistics Vanguard, keeping the special goals of the journal in mind. A description of these goals can be found here <span class=pagecontents>Appropriateness of the article</span> The article is not per se inappropriate, but I feel it could be greatly improved, as shown in the next paragraph.
Please describe any steps that need to be taken to improve the article. <span class=pagecontents>Steps to improve</span> 

It feels a bit strange, since I do not often have studies where my reviews come to this conclusion, but somehow, I do not really know what this study is up to, what the research goals are, and how you check that you have achieved them. Unfortunately, I cannot really tell you what to do differently. Maybe, you could rethink the whole framing of the study? You want to have a measure for complexity, you nicely explain different studies that were based on it, you also know how they framed their measures, so can you in this light not find a more verbose way of defending the new measure you introduce? Put the correlation plot in the appendix (and maybe make sure that the Pearson correlation is good, since you do not seem to have good reasons to assume that the data are normally distributed, so maybe use Spearman or Kendall's tau?), try to make a different story from your work. Explain more clearly, why the modifications are important, and what effects you expect from them. If it is so similar to the one by Çöltekin and Rama, can't you run a case study where you only compare the two measures and then check what they do differently, trying to find good examples in favor of your new measure? The title suggests you explore morphological information, but your work does not really follow up on this, as you merely compare measures on the same corpus. If you want to do that exclusively, maybe you should change the title to something like "Comparing Corpus-Based Approaches to Measure Morphological Complexity"?


  REVIEWER’S SCORING
 REVIEWER’S SCORING
(5, Excellent; 4, High; 3, Medium; 2, Low; 1, Inacceptable)
3

  Recommendation
Return to author for modifications
 
  Comments to the Author
I am sorry for not being of more help here, but I think the core thing this study needs is a rearrangement with a certain amount of rewriting that tells us a more coherent story. Right as it is, the study would in part appeal to scholars like me, given that it nicely introduces complexity and that the appendix introduces basic problems of using corpus data, but I think it would be better to approach it with more ambition. 